Add doc dir for Keptn 0.16 (#1228)
keptn/keptn.github.io: content/docs/0.16.x/bridge/_index.md

---
title: Keptn Bridge (Web UI)
description: The user interface of Keptn that presents all projects and services managed by Keptn. It is automatically installed with your Keptn deployment.
weight: 8
---

## Views in Keptn Bridge

> The Keptn Bridge provides an easy way to browse all events that are sent within Keptn. When you access the Keptn Bridge, all projects will be shown on the start screen. When clicking on a project, the stages of this project, and all services are shown on the next view. An overview of those views is given below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Keptn Bridge provides an easy way to browse all events that are sent within Keptn. When you access the Keptn Bridge, all projects are shown on the start screen. When clicking on a project, the stages of this project, and all services are shown on the next view. An overview of those views is given below.
```

### Project view

> * When you enter the Keptn Bridge and have not created a project yet, you will be guided to the instructions on how to setup a project and create a sample app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When you enter the Keptn Bridge and have not created a project yet, you are guided to the instructions about how to set up a project and create a sample app.
```

    {{< popup_image
      link="./assets/project-dashboard-empty.png"
      caption="Keptn Bridge empty project view">}}

> * If you have created projects, you will see the project listed including their stages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you have created projects, you see the projects listed, including their stages.
```

    {{< popup_image
      link="./assets/project-dashboard.png"
      caption="Keptn Bridge project view">}}

### Environment view

* When you select a project, you see the environment overview of the entire Keptn context.

> * This view allows to easily see the current deployed services on each stage and if there are any errors or pending approvals for one stage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* This view shows the currently deployed services on each stage and whether any stages have errors or pending approvals.
```

>   By clicking on a stage you can see more information about the deployed services on the specific stage on the right side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When you cllick on a stage, more information about the services deployed on this stage is displayed on the right side.

> * The service details on the right are showing the current and the past 5 evaluations, open approvals and running remediations for each service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The service details on the right show the current and the past 5 evaluations, open approvals and running remediations for each service.
```

  {{< popup_image
  link="./assets/environment-view.png"
  caption="Keptn Bridge environment view">}}

### Services view

> * One of the key steps for continuous delivery and remediation is the evaluation result based on SLO/SLIs. The services view gives you a clear overview
>   over the result of this evaluation step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* One of the key steps for continuous delivery and remediation is the evaluation result based on SLOs and SLIs. The services view gives an overview
  of the results of this evaluation step.
```

> * For each service the deployed artifacts are listed. Accordingly, for each artifact and executed stage, the evaluation result is displayed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The deployed artifacts for each service are listed, with the evaluation result for each artifact and executed stage
```

  as *HeatMap* and *Chart*:

    {{< popup_image
        link="./assets/services-view-heatmap.png"
        caption="Evaluation Heatmap"
        width="50%">}}

    {{< popup_image
        link="./assets/services-view-chart.png"
        caption="Evaluation Chart"
        width="50%">}}

> * To customize the chart, labels can be used. If the `sh.keptn.event.evaluation.triggered` event has the label `buildId` attached, the Keptn Bridge reads the value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use labels to customize the chart. If the `sh.keptn.event.evaluation.triggered` event has the label `buildId` attached, the Keptn Bridge reads the value
```

>   of this label and uses it as label for the x-axis in the *Chart*. If the value of the label is an URL, the label will be displayed as a link, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  of this label and uses it as label for the x-axis in the *Chart*. If the value of the label is a URL, the label is displayed as a link, 
```

>   so you can easily link back to the Dynatrace Dashboard for example. 

Reviewer: Do you want to call out Dynatrace here or say something more generic, like "link back to the dashboard of your observability server" ?

    {{< popup_image
        link="./assets/buildId.png"
        caption="Use `buildId` as label"
        width="50%">}}
  
* If you are using relative SLO values that are based on past evaluations *Ignore for comparison* could come in handy. With this you can exclude an evaluation when 
  determining the relative values. To do so click on the desired evaluation in the heatmap and click the button *Ignore for comparison*. The evaluation is then
  removed from the heatmap and the evaluation calculation.

    {{< popup_image
        link="./assets/services-view-invalidate-evaluation.png"
        caption="Ignore evaluation for comparison"
        width="50%">}}
  

> * For your convenience the SLOs that the evaluation was executed against, as well as the event payload, can be viewed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For your convenience, you can view both the SLOs against which the evaluation was executed against, and the event payload.
```

    {{< popup_image
        link="./assets/services-view-slo.png"
        caption="Evaluation SLOs"
        width="50%">}}

    {{< popup_image
        link="./assets/services-view-payload.png"
        caption="Event Payload"
        width="50%">}}
        

> * If you configured some remediations and one of them is currently running, the affected service, deployment and stage is indicated. You can also see, which type of remediation is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you configured some remediations and one of them is currently running, the affected service, deployment and stage is indicated. You can also see which type of remediation is
```

  being executed and view its configuration and sequence execution.

    {{< popup_image
        link="./assets/services-view-remediations.png"
        caption="Open remediations"
        width="50%">}}

    {{< popup_image
        link="./assets/services-view-remediation-config.png"
        caption="Remediation configuration"
        width="50%">}}

### Evaluation board

* Next to the evaluation comparison as a heatmap or chart in the *Services* view, we provide a link to the *Evaluation Board*, which displays only 

>   the evaluation comparison on this stage. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the evaluation comparison for this stage. 
```

  
    {{< popup_image
    link="./assets/bridge_evaluationboard.png"
    caption="Keptn Bridge Evaluation Board">}}
  
### Sequences view

> * The sequences for the selected project are shown on this screen. It has a lot of filter possibilities, that can either be selected

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The sequences for the selected project are shown on this screen. It has many filter possibilities which can either be selected
```

>   in the left pane or be applied by using the search bar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  in the left pane or applied by using the search bar.
```

* When you select a sequence, the related tasks are shown for each stage. The stages can be selected by clicking onto the stage name in
  the timeline, or the badge of the sequence list item.
* You can also expand each task to show the related events.

  {{< popup_image
  link="./assets/sequences-screen-filter.png"
  caption="Keptn Bridge Sequences View">}}
  
### Uniform view

> The uniform view gives you an overview over all integrations installed within your Keptn installation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The uniform view gives you an overview of all integrations installed within your Keptn installation. 
```

The data is fetched from your Kubernetes cluster and shows useful information like
* Unread/New error events
* Deployment version of the service
* The cluster or host where it is running
* The Kubernetes namespace
* The location within Keptn

> * The Cloud Events the services are subscribed to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The Cloud Events to which the services are subscribed
```

{{< popup_image
link="./assets/uniform-view.png"
caption="Keptn Bridge Uniform View">}}

You can view the related subscriptions, events on error level, and sequence failures by selecting an integration. It is also possible to directly configure the subscriptions to listen to specific events.

> If there are new error events since the last time the integration was viewed, a red indicator shows up for this integration. When a sequence in this particular scope failed, then there is
> a link provided that takes you directly to the failed task in the sequence. 'n/a' in this regard means that the error is not related to any sequence execution. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there are new error events since the last time the integration was viewed, a red indicator shows up for this integration. When a sequence in this particular scope fails,
a link is provided that takes you directly to the failed task in the sequence. 'n/a' in this regard means that the error is not related to any sequence execution. 
```

In the environment view a pending approval can be recognized by the blue service out-of-sync icon at the according stage.
Examining the stage allows to directly approve or decline the sequence in the stage overview.

{{< popup_image
link="./assets/approval-environment.png"
caption="Approval in Environments">}}

In the services view, a pending approval can be recognized by the blue border of the stage. By examining the stage, approval can also be directly triggered there. 

{{< popup_image
link="./assets/approval-service.png"
caption="Approval in Services">}}

In sequences the approval is listed within the tasks in the sequence. Approve or decline the approval by opening the expand pane.

{{< popup_image
link="./assets/approval-sequence.png"
caption="Approval in Sequences">}}

### Manage projects

See the documentation for [managing projects](https://keptn.sh/docs/0.16.x/reference/bridge/manage_projects) to see which features for creating and updating projects the Bridge provides.

## Early access version of Keptn Bridge

Right now there is no early access version of Keptn Bridge available.

> If you have any questions or feedback regarding Keptn Bridge, please contact us through our [Keptn Community Channels](https://github.com/keptn/community).

Author: I wanted to link the community repo since it has a collection of all community-related resources.

> If you have any questions or feedback regarding Keptn Bridge, please contact us through our [Keptn Community Channels](https://github.com/keptn/community).

Reviewer: Sounds good to me!
